[Music]
frigid temperatures loud noise sickening
turbulence and constant danger to boot
hey sign me up
yeah all of that used to be part of a
luxury only the most well-to-do people
could afford no it's not glamping I'm
talking about air travel getting on a
plane to go somewhere today is almost as
simple as catching a train or a taxi but
a century ago it was way more
complicated if you look at photos of
aircraft passengers from the 30s they're
rarely seen without their jackets or
coats on that wasn't just for the sake
of fashion it was really chilly inside
since heated cabins were still rare back
then there were some things you couldn't
fix just by donning an extra layer of
clothing
remember those vomit bags that are still
present on most Jets
even though hardly anyone ever needs
them anymore well they originated from a
time when not puking during a flight was
a real challenge um what seat would you
prefer in the puking or the non puking
section a puking place I just had lunch
very well flying at high altitudes just
like climbing up a mountain can trigger
a few different health problems the low
pressure at high altitudes makes it more
difficult for the body to absorb oxygen
air travelers felt queasy and found it
hard to breathe today every aircraft is
pressurized inside in other words it's
filled with compressed air which
provides a more comfortable atmosphere
similar to one you'd feel at just 8,000
feet but the first commercial plane with
a pressurization system didn't emerge
until 1930
it's no wonder that before that most
passengers had no choice but to use
paper bags or special balls that were
kindly placed under their seat another
drawback of not having the normal
pressure onboard was turbulence without
pressurization pilots couldn't rise
further than 15,000 feet from the ground
again flying even this high was hard
enough it meant the planes had to cruise
right through wind and rain instead of
slipping above the weather like they do
now and sometimes they would swoop down
hundreds of feet in mere seconds this
already shaky and nervous journey was
pretty noisy too in the 1930s many
aircraft had either weak or no
soundproofing at all so people on board
had to deal with the sound of wind
blasting by and roaring engines for
example the blare of the famous tin
goose or the Ford tri-motor during
takeoff reached up to 120 decibels just
so you know that's louder than a rock
concert all that noise was actually
really harmful to people's hearing but
that doesn't mean the poor passengers
had to just tough it out
flight attendants called stewardesses
back then handed out little cotton balls
to lessen the truly deafening sounds
they also had megaphones to make
announcements because using your normal
voice in these circumstances was clearly
not an option you could say
it couldn't be so bad since a flight
took just a couple of hours right well I
hate to disappoint you but in the past
planes were way more sluggish than the
modern ones during the 30s one air trip
from New York to Los Angeles took about
25 hours the same trip today will only
set you back six hours tops and it
definitely wasn't a nonstop experience
to get from one point to another
aviators needed to make over a dozen
stops as well as refuel a couple of
times passengers had to change both
planes and Airlines to make it to their
final destination I guess now I
understand where the phrase time despair
go by air came from one way that planes
definitely beat any other form of
transportation was long-haul tours
crossing the ocean to fly to another
continent required lots of lei hours and
the overall route could take about a
week and a half but that was nothing
compared to a month-long odyssey by ship
on the bright side and we are lengthy
flights with multiple stops give
travelers the opportunity to visit more
beautiful countries and ultimately see
more of the world on one condition
though if they could afford it in the
1930s air travel was still a relatively
new and costly technology which only
recently tilted toward commercial
service you may not know this but the
first airlines including Pan Am were
founded not to transport people but
rather to carry mail which accounted for
most of their profits it may seem
strange from today's perspective but it
was only logical back then if the early
planes had to pick between bringing a
bunch of letters onboard or only one or
two passengers well the choice was
obvious especially giving that postcards
and parcels didn't demand any amenities
unlike people but when companies finally
began ferrying men and women by air it
was an extremely expensive service just
imagine in 1938 you'd have to pay two
hundred forty three dollars for a week
long bumpy trip from London to Brisbane
Australia that's about 17 thousand bucks
in today's month domestic routes weren't
a lot cheaper
the
price of a flight from one coast to
another in the US was almost $4,000 in
today's money for the record you could
add one or two times this amount of
money and it would be enough to buy a
whole new car it's no exaggeration to
say that aircraft had a good deal of
faults and flaws back in the day and yet
the 20s and especially that 30s were
dubbed the Golden Age of flight and for
a reason after all it was an era when a
wide range of people learned firsthand
what flying was of course they paid a
fortune for it but in return they got a
pretty extravagant experience since the
first airway customers were mostly
wealthy people including film stars and
politicians technically there was only
one category of passengers for a while
the one we now consider first-class
they had big and comfortable seats and
passengers could gaze out windows that
were much more similar to Train windows
than the tiny ones were used to today
imagine traveling on a flying boat these
huge machines could fly just like planes
but they could also land on water this
was especially useful for long-distance
transatlantic tracks the most glorious
example of a seaplane of the 1930s was
Pan Am's clipper basically it was a
flying five star hotel with roaming
compartments dining rooms and lounge
areas
the voyagers ate at reel tables while
their food was served on fine china
dishes it's hard to imagine but these
ships also had separate bathrooms for
women and men and even bunk beds for
sleeping this era was most likely dubbed
the Golden Age of flight not only
because of the incredible service but
also due to the various improvements
made in aviation during this time until
then most planes were made out of fabric
and wood in the 30s they were replaced
by the metal ones which made them
stronger and less susceptible to weather
they also became faster than ever before
if an average crew speed in the 1920s
hovered around 100 miles per hour
a decade later they could fly at about
200 miles per hour
back then not only the flight itself was
different but so were the procedures
before the takeoff there might not have
been as many security measures as now
but the airports had some other quirks
for instance some of them demanded that
passengers had to weigh both the luggage
and themselves in front of other
passengers
not to mention that with such a small
number of people traveling by air there
was no need to arrive at the airport
hours before departure the lack of
modern traffic was another contributing
factor
the check-in was quick they just go
through your passport and tickets and
ten minutes later you'd already be
boarding ah those were the days hey if
you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life